Added "attribution reporting: a primer" post (#962)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-primer/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'

> title: 'Attribution Reporting (Conversion Measurement): a primer'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Introduction to Attribution Reporting (Conversion Measurement)'
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion to use a more common word.

subhead: >
  Introduction and key concepts to understand the Attribution Reporting API.
date: 2021-07-09
updated: 2021-07-09
authors:
  - maudn
---

{% Aside %}  
This API is a proposal and will expand over time. This blog post describes its current
state, and will be updated as the API evolves. {% endAside %}

> Last updates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates:
```

- Early 2021: aggregate reports and view-through measurement are added to the proposal.
- Early 2021: the API is renamed to "Attribution Reporting API".

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> - This post focuses on advertising use cases, but the Attribution Reporting API can be
>   used for use cases that are unrelated to advertising.
> - The advertising use cases for this API focus on linking ad clicks or views to
>   conversions (Conversion Measurement).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This post focuses on advertising use cases, but the Attribution Reporting API can
  serve use cases that are not related to advertising as well.
- The advertising use cases for this API focus on linking ad clicks or views to
  conversions (Conversion Measurement).  
```

  {% endAside %}

## Introduction

The Attribution Reporting API makes it possible to measure when an **ad click or view**
leads to a **conversion** on an advertiser site, such as a sale or a sign-up. The API
doesn't rely on third-party cookies or mechanisms that can be used to identify individual
users across sites.

This proposal is being incubated in the open. The proposal and discussions live in the
[WICG GitHub repository](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api).

{% Aside %}  

> This API is part of the Privacy Sandbox, a series of proposals to satisfy third-party use
> cases without third-party cookies or other cross-site tracking mechanisms. See [Privacy
> Sandbox proposals](https://developers.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is a part of Privacy Sandbox, a series of proposals to satisfy third-party use
cases without third-party cookies or other cross-site tracking mechanisms. See [Privacy
Sandbox proposals](https://developers.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox).  
```

{% endAside %}

## Why is this API needed?

Today, ad conversion measurement often relies on [third-party
cookies](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies#Third-party_cookies).
Browsers are restricting access to third-party cookies because these can be used to track

> users across sites and hinder user privacy. This API addresses in a privacy-preserving way
> the measurement solved by third-party cookies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users across sites and hinder user privacy. This API enables those measurements 
in a privacy-preserving way, without third-party cookies.
```

## Who needs to know about this API?

> - Adtech platforms such as [demand-side
>   platforms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand-side_platform) (DSP) or [data management
>   platforms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_management_platform) (DMP) are likely to
>   be interested in using this API to support functionality that currently relies on
>   third-party cookies.
> - Advertisers and publishers relying on custom code for advertising or conversion
>   measurement may similarly be interested in using this API to replace existing
>   techniques.
> - Advertisers and publishers relying on adtech platforms for conversion measurement don't
>   need to use the API directly, but may be interested in understanding it if they're
>   working with adtech platforms that may integrate the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adtech platforms such as [demand-side
  platforms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand-side_platform) (DSP) or [data management
  platforms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_management_platform) (DMP) may use
  this API to support functionality that currently relies on third-party cookies.
- Advertisers and publishers relying on custom code for advertising or conversion
  measurement may use this API to replace existing techniques.
- Advertisers and publishers relying on adtech platforms for conversion measurement don't
  need to use the API directly, but may be interested in understanding it if they're
  working with adtech platforms that may integrate the API.
```

## Participate

{% Aside %}  

> **Your participation is needed!** A wide variety of conversion measurement and
> optimization use cases may need to be supported by this API. Ecosystem input is vital to
> ensure that solutions to support these use cases are discussed in the open. {% endAside %}
> 
> To engage, join the discussion and/or try the API. Doing both is optimal, but you're
> welcome to join the discussion whether or not you've tried the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Your participation is needed!** This API may need to support a wide variety of conversion 
measurement and optimization use cases. Ecosystem input is vital to
ensure that solutions to support these use cases are discussed in the open. {% endAside %}

To engage, join the discussion and try the API. Doing both is optimal, but you're
welcome to join the discussion whether or not you've tried the API.
```

- [Open an issue](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/new) to ask
  questions, propose features, or discuss use cases. If you're unsure how to formulate
  your issue, see examples like [this
  issue](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/147) and [this
  issue](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/68). You can also join
  the conversation in [existing
  issues](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues).

### Try the API

{% Aside 'caution' %}

If you're experimenting with the API in Chrome, you'll have access
to all the features that are **currently** implemented. Not all features discussed in the [repository](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/) and [meeting](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80) are implemented in the Chrome origin trial. See the current feature status in [Status](#status). The features
available for experimentation are also a subset of what will ultimately be supported by
the API, and are subject to change as the API is being incubated in the open and as
ecosystem feedback is collected.

{% endAside %}

#### Experiment locally or with a demo

> 1.  Enable the API locally in your browser by turning on the flag
>     `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features`. A Chrome flag is a toggle that tells
>     your browser to enable certain experimental functionalities. To turn on that flag,
>     paste `chrome://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` in Chrome's search
>     bar and click **Enable**.
> 2.  Run the [demo](#demo) locally (or try the [live demo](#demo)).
> 3.  [Fork the demo code](#demo) and customize it, or build your own demo from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  To enable the API locally in your browser, turn on the flag
    `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features`. A Chrome flag is a toggle that tells
    your browser to enable certain experimental functionalities. To turn on that flag,
    paste `chrome://flags/#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` in Chrome's search
    bar and click **Enable**.
2.  Run the [demo](#demo) locally (or try the [live demo](#demo)).
3.  [Fork the demo code](#demo) and customize it, or build your own demo from scratch.
```

    gives you access to an experimental feature, to build functionality you can try out
    for a limited time. Note that [third-party origin
    trials](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/third-party-origin-trials/) make it possible
    for third-party actors such as ad serving and measurement providers to test an API
    across multiple sites. **To see the currently available origin trials for this API,
    head over to [Status](#status)**. To be informed of future origin trials, join the
    [Attribution Reporting mailing list for
    developers](https://groups.google.com/u/1/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev).

1.  Integrate the API into your sites and systems.

{% Aside %}  
If you have implementation questions, join the [Attribution Reporting mailing list for
developers](https://groups.google.com/u/1/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev)
and ask.

If you have general technical questions about your use case, consider opening an issue on
the [Privacy Sandbox dev support
repository](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support).  
{% endAside %}

## Demo

> A few demos are available for you to try:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few demos are available for you to try.
```

- Event-level reports, clicks only:

  - [Live demo](https://goo.gle/sppi-devrel-eventlevel).
  - [Source
    code](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/trust-safety-demo/tree/main/conversion-measurement)
    for this demo, that you can [fork and
    customize](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/trust-safety-demo/tree/main/conversion-measurement#fork-and-customize)
    as needed.

## Use cases and features

{% Aside %}

This API is a work in progress and will evolve over time, depending on ecosystem feedback
and input.

All the features this API supports are proposals. **Each of these proposals is open to
discussion and feedback**, including those that have an initial browser implementation
ready.

> This API is being incubated and developed in the open. [Participate](#participate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is being incubated and developed in the open. [Consider participating](#participate) in the discussion.
```

specified.

Later on, the user visits the advertiser's website and performs an action that the
advertiser or their adtech provider categorizes as a conversion, such as a purchase. When
this happens, the advertiser or adtech provider triggers an attribution: it asks the
browser to record a conversion with a certain value `trigger-data`, and the ad click (or
view) and conversion event are matched by the user's browser.

The browser finally schedules a report to be sent to the endpoint specified on the ad
side. This report includes:

- Custom ad-side data that was attached to the ad click or view that led to this
  conversion.
- Custom conversion-side data, with some noise.

If several conversions are registered for a given ad click (or view), corresponding
reports are scheduled to be sent. A single report can be sent for views, and up to three
reports for clicks.

Reports are sent by the browser after a delay⏤days or sometimes weeks after a conversion.

{% endDetails %}

### Aggregate reports

<figure>
{% Img src="image/O2RNUyVSLubjvENAT3e7JSdqSOx1/HAl0ppkoxoGCtttWDk2A.png", alt="ALT_TEXT_HERE", width="800", height="1140" %}

>   <figcaption>Aggregate reports are generated as follows: the browser matches detailed clicks or views ("attribution source events") with detailed conversion data ("attribution trigger data") defined by an adtech. Adtech-defined code runs in a worklet to define contributions that will be sent by the browser in order to be used to compute aggregate reports. Aggregation services are responsible for privately computing aggregate reports for adtech.</figcaption>

Reviewer: I suggest pulling these descriptions out of the caption element, and into paragraph text. The longer captions (below) don't look good with centred formatting.
